A simple integration is basically this formula where y equals zero plus B one times x.
And you might recognize this formula from back in high school it's just a formal over a trend line or
a slope sloped a line on a x y axis.
And let's go through these variables and coefficients one by one.
So this is the dependent variable the dependent variable something you're trying to explain for instance
how does a person's salary change with the years of experience that he has.
So in that case why would be the dependent variable or how What grade does a student get.
Depending on how much time he's put into studying in that case why would be the dependent variable so
something that you're trying to understand how it depends on something else X is your independent variable
.
In this case and the simple integration only have one independent variable.
So we don't even have to call X Y or we could just call X and this is the variable that is.
You're assuming that it is causing the depend variable to change or as we will learn further.
Sometimes the independent variable might not be a direct causal factor but it's still there might be
an implied association between the two.
And in that case you're trying to figure out this association then B One is the coefficient for the
independent variable.
And it kind of says how the effect or how a change in X-1 a unit change in x y and we'll be talking
about this a lot.
Unit changes a unit change in X-1 how that affects a unit change in Y.
So it's kind of think of it as the translator or the multiplier or something like that that that's connects
to the connector between y and X-1 so you can just say you can always say X-1 is directly proportional
there is.
Well you going to say why the change in x is always equal to change and why there might be this coefficient
of proportion to which proportion that change is inflated or deflated and Bizarros the constants as
a constant term and we'll talk about the constant just in a few seconds.
So now let's look at the simple in your regression because it's the easiest one to discuss.
It's very pretty straightforward you can visualize it quite well.
So here we got the y and x axis.
Let's look at that specific example where we have experience and salary.
So experience is going to be our horizontal axis.
Salary is all vertical axis and we want to understand how people's salary depends on their experience
.
Well what we do in regression is we don't just come up with a theory we look at the evidence we'll look
at the live hard facts so here are some observations we've had.
So in a certain company this is how salaries are distributed among people who have different levels
of experience and what a regression does.
So that's a formula for aggression.
In our case it'll change to salary equals be zero plus BE1 Times experience.
And what that essentially means is just putting a line through your chart that best fits this data and
we'll talk about best fitting in the next tutorial when we're talking about ordinary squares.
But for now this is the chart.
This is the line that best fits as Darren even looks like it right.
So I don't it's it's quite hard to draw a line that fits is not a better and assumption here is impossible
this is the best line that approximates is not.
What does that mean.
Well we'll talk about that in the next term once again.
For now let's focus on the coefficients and the caffeine and the constant.
So what does the constant mean here.
Well the that actually means the point where the line crosses the vertical axis and let's say it's $30000
.
What does that mean.
Well it means that when B when experience is zero.
So when as you say on the horizontal axis when experience is at zero in the formula on the right you
can see that the second part BE1 Times experience becomes zero so salary equals zero.
That means that salary will equal to $30000 when a person has no experience so soon somebody is know
fresh from University and joins this company.
Most likely they will have a salary about $30000.
You know there will be some confidence intervals there but we won't go into that right now.
Just we can say that according to this model that person will be probably getting paid $30000.
Now what is being one big one is the slope of the line.
And so the steeper the line the more you get more money you get per extra year of experience.
Let's look at this.
In this particular example let's say somebody went from I don't know maybe four to five years experience
right.
So then to understand how his salary increase you have to project this onto the line and then project
that onto the salary access and you can see that here for one of your experience the person will get
an extra ten thousand dollars on top of his salary.
So if the coefficient one is less than the slope will be less and that means the salary increase will
be less per every year of experience.
If the slope is greater then that means the experience will yield more increase in salary and that's
pretty much it.
That's how a simple your regression works.
So the core goal here is that we're not just drawing a line theoretically that we can we came up with
some how we're actually using observations that we have to find the best fitting line and what best
fitting line is we'll talk about that in the next tutorial.